Name    -   Description
Protocol Version    -   The version of protocol, used to prevent unsupported versions early, in the event the hello process changes.


Message Type
A field specifying what type of message was sent. This is used to confirm intention of packet sent to a specific port, used for discarding. It also defines status of the hello procedure.
0 – Undefined. Likely an error.
1 – Unencrypted Hello, Solicitation (Unsolicited)
2 – Unencrypted Hello, Challenge-response (Solicited)
3 – Unencrypted Hello, Encryption (Solicited)
4-6 – RESERVED
byte
11-15 – RESERVED


Challenge   -   1024 bits (128 bytes) of challenge, used to authenticate a remote node. See Hello Protocol for more information.


Response    -   256 (32 bytes) of SHA256, used to store the hash response to the challenge issued. See Hello Protocol for more information.


p   -   8192 (1024 byte) value which specifies the desired or chosen p value to be used in Diffie-Hellman. It is possible this datatype needs to be resized in future versions. The value was chosen due to the IETF draft standard for IKE p sizes, where in 2003, it wasn’t feasible to use a p of more than 8192, a maximum for the time [10].


pMin	-   A 64 bit double precision floating point number, using 11 bits of exponent, for a maximum value of 21023 [11]. The value specifies the approximate minimum acceptable p value. It is possible this datatype needs to be redefined in future versions.


pMax	-   A 64 bit double precision floating point number, using 11 bits of exponent, for a maximum value of 21023 [11]. The value specifies the approximate maximum acceptable p value. It is possible this datatype needs to be redefined in future versions.


q	-   A 16 bit integer to store the chosen or desired value for q. It is possible this datatype needs to be resized in future versions.


qMin	-   A 16 bit integer to store the minimum acceptable value for q. It is possible this datatype needs to be resized in future versions.


qMax	-   A 16 bit integer to store the maximum acceptable value for q. It is possible this datatype needs to be resized in future versions.


Multi-access link Flag (MF) -   A flag used to help identify if a link is multi-access. It is used to confirm if an election should take place, though nodes should already know this internally from carrier sense.


Election Flag (ElF)	-   A flag to determine if nodes on a multi-access link are in the middle of an election. This allows a neighbour to know an election is taking place and to wait for the new LC, in the event it tries to join a link late, mid election.


External State  -   The state the node advertises to all other nodes in updates, so that they know the current status. Values in Table 3 match values, starting from 0 and ending in 7, to the 3 bits used. No other packets need to exchange state information, as the small EH-I packet is periodically sent and provides enough resolution for protocol operation. States are more for information than used by the protocol.


Autonomous System Number (ASN)  -   A 16 or 32 bit value (32 in this protocol) referring to a collection of machines owned by a single network operator, used in routing protocols [12]. Theoretically, this ASN doesn’t need to be centrally assigned for use in this protocol, but it helps if it is.


Node ID (NID)   -   A numeric ID of a node, stored in 2 bytes, represented in hexadecimal form. It is vital to the protocol operation in the hello, exchange and calculation. It is an important index in the databases.


Area ID (AID)   -   A numeric ID of an area, stored in 2 bytes. It is used to separate nodes into collection of nodes called areas, which allow for summarisation of routes at boarders, and so less calculations and updates.


Link Controller (LC) ID -   The node ID of the LC. If the value is null, there is no LC. This is either before election, or on a point-to-point link.


Backup (B)LC ID -   The node ID of the BLC. If the value is null, there is no BLC. This is either before election, or on a point-to-point link.


K1, K2, K3  -   8-bit values used to determine metric calculation parameters. See Metric above for a full description of the use of K values.


Hash Description    -   A SHA-512 hash of the topology database, ordered by node with lowest NID, then by lowest IP address. Value size is 512 bits, and using the largest SHA-2 hash decreases chance of false hits [13].


Originating Node ID -   The NID of the node the information originates from. This node is treated as the authoritative source of the information. As authentication has occurred, there is no issue with security, and as messages are secured, there is no perceived chance of poisoning.


External network indication Flag (EF)   -   A flag used to specify if a network is internal to the routing protocol (used for routing) or external (a network that needs dual paths). See Calculation below for more information.


Alive Flag (AF) -   A flag used to specify if a network is currently alive. This flag indicates if the network has gone down temporarily, and nodes should update their database to softly disable the link routing.


Update Type	   -    The type of update packet that is being sent, in 6 bits. Defines what is included in the field, and how the update is treated at a receiving node. The leading bits of the byte is used for flags, and other flags needed can be carved out in later versions if needed.
0 – Inner-area Update: A generic update to inform nodes within an area of a change in state.
1 – Inter-area Update: A summary for networks in another area, sent to other areas by the boarder noes. This is the primary mechanism of limiting routing updates between areas.
2 – ASBN: The IP address of an Autonomous System Boarder Node (ASBN) that has external routes advertised. This packet originates from the ASBN, and is used to provide the address an internal node can route packets to reach a matching external destination. The Originating NID field is critical to function.
3 – External: A route advertised from a source external to the protocol. Information is less trustworthy in terms of integrity and confidentiality, but vitally important if from an ERP. Using information from a type 2 record, the routing decision is made. The packet originates from the ASBN. The Originating NID field is critical to function.
4-31 RESERVED


Prefix Length	-   8 bits storing the number of bits that make up the network portion of the address.


IPv4 Address	-   4 byte address represented in dotted decimal format, as a network or host address [14]. Required for IPv4 operation.


IPv6 Address	-   16 byte address represented in hexadecimal, as a network or host address [14]. Required for IPv6 operation.


Cost	-   A 16 bit value associated with the cost of traversing a link. Derived from the cost calculation per node, per interface. Cost is transmitted between nodes when sharing information. See Metric for more.


Type 2 Cost	-   The same as normal cost, but larger to take into account that it is the cost on the Area Border Node (ABN), which includes its internal cost, which is greater.


Autonomous System Boarder Node (ASBN) IP(v4 or v6)	-   The IP address of the ASBN which knows of the IP address externally. Prefix length doesn’t match this field. When using an external route, traffic destined to the external destination are sent to this address first, to then be routed externally.